# IFT6390 Competition 2 Kaggle

## Description
...

## Overview
This project contains various components for [describe what your project does or aims to achieve]. Below is the structure of the project:

- `data`: Directory to store input/output data used by the program.
- `experiences`: Directory to hold any experience-related files or data.
- `figures`: Directory to save visualizations or figures generated by the program.
- `LICENSE`: File containing the project's license information.
- `notebooks`: Directory containing Jupyter notebooks or interactive development files.
- `README.md`: This file, providing an overview and guidance for the project.
- `requirements.txt`: File listing the required Python libraries and their versions.
- `scripts`: Directory holding executable Python scripts for the project.
- `setup.py`: Python setup script to install the project as a package.
- `tests`: Directory containing unit tests or test scripts for the project.

## Usage
...
## Installation
Unzip `./data/raw/compressed_data.zip`.
### Pip + Virtualenv

An alternative to Conda is to use pip and virtualenv to manage your environments.
This may play less nicely with Windows, but works fine on Unix devices.
This method makes use of the `requirements.txt` file.

Ensure you have installed the [virtualenv tool](https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/latest/installation.html) on your system.
Once installed, create a new virtual environment:

    vitualenv ~/competition2-ift6390-venv
    source ~/competition2-ift6390-venv/bin/activate

Install the packages from a requirements.txt file:

    pip install -r requirements.txt

As before, register the environment so jupyter can see it:

    python -m ipykernel install --user --name=competition2-ift6390-venv

You should now be able to launch jupyter and see your conda environment:

    jupyter-lab

If you want to create a new `requirements.txt` file, you can use `pip freeze`:

    pip freeze > requirements.txt

## Example Usage

This repository contains several Python scripts for running machine learning experiments related to the IFT6390 Competition 2 (Automne 2023).

## Experiments Overview

### Python Scripts:
- **CNN.py**: Script for executing the initial Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) model.
- **CNN_ensembliste.py**: Script involving an ensemble approach with CNN models.
- **experience9_xgb.py**: Script executing XGBoost.
- **RF_from_scratch.py**: Script implementing a Random Forest model from scratch.
- **RF_sklearn.py**: Script utilizing Random Forest from the scikit-learn library.
- **experience2.py**: Script utilizing Random Forest from the scikit-learn library.


### Running a Script
**Run a Script**:
   - To execute a specific script, use the following command format:
     ```bash
     python script_name.py
     ```
     Replace `script_name.py` with the name of the script you want to run:
     - To execute the CNN script:
       ```bash
       python CNN.py
       ```
     - For the CNN ensemble script:
       ```bash
       python CNN_ensembliste.py
       ```
     - Run other scripts similarly by replacing `script_name.py` with the respective script names.

Running these commands will execute the respective Python scripts and perform the defined operations associated with each experiment.

## Development

## Project Directory Structure
This repository contains code and scripts for machine learning experiments and data processing related to a specific project.
Directory Structure Overview

    data: Contains various subdirectories for different data-related tasks:
        asset: Holds assets or resources related to the project.
        hyperparameters: Stores hyperparameters used in models or algorithms.
        prediction: Presumably holds files or output related to predictions.
        processed: Contains processed data or intermediate results.
        raw: Stores raw or initial data.
        weights: Possibly contains weights for machine learning models.
    data_process: Contains scripts related to data processing:
    experiences: Holds various scripts for different machine learning experiments:
        CNN.py: Initial attempt at a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) model.
        CNN_ensembliste.py: Possibly an ensemble approach involving CNNs.
        comparaisonRF.py: Script comparing Random Forest models.
        Other scripts like RF_from_scratch.py, RF_sklearn.py, etc., are related to Random Forest models using different approaches.
        Various other scripts denoting different experiments with machine learning models.

    figures: Contains images or visualizations generated from experiments:
        Images with names like cnn_ensembliste_42_12_0.9918.png, likely represent results or visualizations from the CNN ensemble models.
    notebooks: Jupyter notebooks for experimentation and analysis:
    scripts: Contains scripts related to specific functionalities:
        CNN.py, RF.py, etc., might contain utility functions or modules for CNNs and Random Forests.

## Authors
Julien Hebert-Doutreloux & Jeremy Kaufman



## License
Include information about the project's license and any permissions or restrictions regarding the use of the project code and resources.
